[MUSIC].
While the while loop is the most easy
to use loop, it's not really the most
commonly
used one because it's not as powerful as
the
for loop which I'm going to show you now.
The for loop.
Which, the key word is for.
You loop through data, which is in an
array, of some sort.
So you could have leaping through files,
which
I'll show you later on in the course.
Or you could have it looping through a
list, which I'll show you now.
And so what we have here is for data.
And, and then we have the list.
And what we're going to do is just we're
going to print data.
And if we run through this, what you'll
see,
is we get is that we get one, two, three,
four and five, each one on a new line.
And the reason for that is simply because
we have a new piece of information.
Being listed each time we run through the
list.
The first one I find is one and it moved
to
the next one, which is two, three, four,
five and so on.
Now, and the string is also treated as an
object.
And so, we could have change to be string.
And what that'll do, is it will go through
each of these letters.
So we have S-T-R-I-N-G, and that is the
data.
So each one that, each one of these will
be treating this object, no matter what it
is.
Whether it's a string, whether it is a
list, whether
it is an, an object which, for example, a
file.
And you can blitz, blow through it one
line at a time, or one word at a time.
You can, you can go through it in many
different ways.
And there's many different ways in which
you can list things,
and the best way of doing this sort of
thing is usually where you use the
key and the value, and you use the key to
control the.
Objects in some way.
However this is not built into Python
directly and so, what we
have to do instead is we have do another
little work around.
Which is where we to create a, where we
have to put our function around the object
which is called enumerate and we have the
Treat this to be key and data.
Now if you get rid of this data here, what
we're going to change here, is
we're going to make it so we'll output
every single letter that is [SOUND].
It outputs every single letter but it's
even and an even key.
Starts at 0 and work its way up.
So if key mapped two.
So if it is divisible by two with no
remainder.
Because that equal to zero means there's
no remainder
then that means that it's going to be
even.
So what we're going to do then is we're
going to print out each of these values.
So I'm going to.
Do, actually I'll change that slightly and
do,
the letter [SOUND], is in an even
location.
And dot format and definately for data,
and if we run through this.
You'll see you get the letter s.
and, so s, zero, is even.
R is number two.
And n is number five.
No.
Four, sorry.
Number four.
Cuz an index starts at zero, so we have
zero, one, two.
Three, four, five, six.
So, if we change that to strings, then we
get the S-R-N-S.
So that is how you check for something to
be even, and likewise if
you put that as a one, then it would check
for it to be odd.
And that is how you leap through things
whilst being able to control the key and
the.
The data that you get from that.
Those two are always going to be the same,
as the location in the actual string.
So the key here is going to be say, zero
and the data is going to be the s.
That is how, the key data for loops work.
Thank you for watching and I will see you
in a, in the next video.
[MUSIC]